THE INVISIBLE HAND

Problem Statement and Solution
Our system aims to solve the problem of having a poor working environment and habits. Since most of our lives are spent at work, our work environment and the habits that we develop have a huge impact on our health and well-being. Our idea of the smart office consists of two parts, the first being smart blinds, to regulate the light level in the environment, and the second being a smart seat, which serves to discourage a sedentary lifestyle by reminding the user to get up every so often through vibrations in the seat cushion as well as alerts on an Android app running on the user's phone or tablet.   

2. Discouraging a sedentary lifestyle
An Android app running on the user's phone maintains a low-energy bluetooth connection to an arduino wired up to a force sensitive resistor and a vibration motor. The app allows the user to set up periodic alerts which will remind him/her to get out of his/her seat after a prolonged duration of sitting. The app first tries to pair with the bluetooth module on the arduino, and once paired, offers the user the option to turn on alerts (which sends a signal to the arduino to start checking the force sensor data) as well as change user settings. We originally wanted to have the user specify a location (eg. home or office) when he/she chooses to turn on alerts, to use to classify the data collected of the user's sitting habits, so that the user will be able to compare his habits across different work environments, but due to time constraints this capability was ommitted. 

2.1 Alert Tiers
Once alerts are turned on, the arduino will send a signal to the app if the force sensor registers that the user has been sitting down for longer than a certain threshold duration (which can be set by the user). It will also trigger the vibration motor for a short period. The user may choose to heed or dismiss the alert (which will be determined by how long the force sensor has registered the user to be off the seat). Alerts are tiered, so that when alerts are first turned on, the first alert sent will be of the lowest tier, with a short and low-intensity vibration of the motor and a short alarm triggered from the app. If the user dismisses this alert, then next alert will be of the next tier, triggering and longer and higher-intensity vibration and longer alarm from the app. (The logic for setting the alert tiers is entirely contained within the Arduino code).

For the protoype, four tiers will be coded into the app, each with increasing duration and intensity. For the lulz, the final tier will culminate in the app playing an exercise video from Zuiikin Girls, which should be more than enough to evict the user from his/her seat.

2.2 User Settings 
The user settings include basic profile and login information as well as alert settings. The user may set the time interval between each alert, as well as the alarm sound, alert message, vibration strength, and whether or not the alert should play exercise videos for each tier of alerts. Additionally, the user may choose to enable smart interval timing, which will allow the system to automatically adjust the time interval between alerts to more effectively discourage prolonged sitting. For example, the system may decrease the time interval if it detects that the user is consistently triggering the fourth tier alarm for too many sessions. The customization functionality of our app has not been fully finished due to time constraints, but the basic framework (methods which save the user settings to file) and UI are in place.

2.3 Data Collection
Data collection of the user's sitting habits will enable to app to implement smart interval timing as well as display a chart of the data to allow the user to assess his/her own habits. The smart interval timing functionality was eventually not implemented due to time constraints, but this a possibility that we an easily extend our system to accomplish.

The data collected will be the average sitting duration per day, and will be stored in a Firebase database. The data will also be categorized by location which the user enters when starting a session. This will allow the user to assess his/her habits across time as well as across different environments, and allow him/her to make informed changes to his/her lifestyle. However, for demonstration and testing purposes, the actual data the code records is the average sitting duration over a given hour of the day, in seconds.
